Mac os (#163)
NSLS-II/edrixs: docs/source/user/installation.rst

************
Installation
************

> For linux and macOS users we suggest :ref:`installing with anaconda <AnacondaInstall>`. For Windows machines, we suggest using the :ref:`docker instructions <edrixsanddocker>`, which are relatively straightforward.  If desired, you can also compile the code from the source for Linux and macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Linux and macOS users we suggest :ref:`installing with anaconda <AnacondaInstall>`. For Windows machines, we suggest using the :ref:`docker instructions <edrixsanddocker>`, which are relatively straightforward.  If desired, you can also compile the code from the source for Linux and macOS.
```

.. _AnacondaInstall:

Install and use edrixs via Anaconda
====================================================
A conda package has been built for Linux and macOS systems. To use edrixs via Anaconda, you need first to install `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/>`_ in your system.
Then, create and activate a conda env, for example, called ``edrixs_env``::

>     conda create --name edrixs_env python=3.7

Reviewer: Maybe we should use `python=3.10` here, as Python 3.7 is deprecated and will see [EOL soon](https://devguide.python.org/versions/).

Also, I suggest we add the `-c conda-forge` to make sure users install everything from a single channel, including the Python package itself. It actually can be done in one line:

```bash
$ conda create --name edrixs_env -c conda-forge python=3.10 edrixs matplotlib
```
(I included `matplotlib` as the [recipe lists only `matplotlib-base`](https://github.com/conda-forge/edrixs-feedstock/blob/f470af0ee2eb89775f303c759fb19aabf74fbc76/recipe/meta.yaml#L32) which is missing the `pyqt` dependency.)

Author: Agreed

from within a notebook cell.

Requirements
============
Several tools and libraries are required to build and install edrixs,

   * Fortran compiler: gfortran and ifort are supported
   * MPI environment: openmpi and mpich are tested
   * MPI Fortran and C compilers: mpif90, mpicc
   * BLAS and LAPACK libraries: `OpenBLAS <https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/>`_ with gfortran and MKL with ifort
   * ARPACK library: `arpack-ng <https://github.com/opencollab/arpack-ng/>`_  with mpi enabled
   * Only Python3 is supported
   * numpy, scipy, sympy, matplotlib, sphinx, numpydoc

>    * mpi4py with same MPI compilers as building edrixs

Reviewer: Here you probably meant `openmpi` or `mpich` variants of the package, so I suggest making the statement a bit more precise:
```suggestion
   * mpi4py with the same MPI implementation libraries (``openmpi`` or ``mpich``) as building edrixs
```

Build from source
=================

> We will show how to build edrixs from source on Ubuntu Linux 18.04 and macOS Mojave (OSX 10.14) as examples.

Reviewer: Probably it'd make sense to use a newer Ubuntu version as an example. Ubuntu 22.04 may be a good candidate (version 18 may not work now with the archived apt-package repositories, I even noticed it on Ubuntu 21.xx).

Author: We have an open PR #157 looking at revising the build and which already bumps the Ubuntu version. I would suggest we address this there.

All done, enjoy!

.. [#] To change your default python you need to add a line to your ``~/.bashrc`` on linux or to your ``~/.bash_profile`` on macOS. This should be ``alias python='/usr/local/bin/python3'`` where the path is determined by calling ``which python3`` from your terminal.

> .. [#] To change your default pip you need to add a line to your ``~/.bashrc`` on linux or to your ``~/.bash_profile`` on macOS. This should be ``alias pip='/usr/bin/pip3'`` where the path is determined by calling ``which pip3`` from your terminal.

Reviewer: We frequently use `python3 -m pip install ...` to avoid using the wrong `pip` — just a thought to consider.

Author: Let's consider this in #157
